Exercise 1: HR Support
1. You are asked to help the HR department of a company with tasks related to determining the salary of
new and existing employees.
The company uses a salary grade-based system, where an employee is placed into a salary grade based
on their number of years of experience in their role or another position at a similar level. Years of
experience in positions at a lower level are also taken into account for the salary grade but only at half
their value, i.e., four years in a lower level position counts equivalent to two years at the level of the
considered position. The calculation for the salary grade allows to combine years of experience at the
considered level with the discounted amount of years of a lower level, but at both levels only whole years
of experience can enter the calculation (before discounting in case of lower level experience). The final
salary grade is determined according to the below table:
1
Salary Grade A B C D E
Amount of experience (years) < 2 2 – 5 6 – 11 12 – 19 → 20
The HR department is especially interested in help with salaries for the “Analyst” and “Senior Analyst”
roles. At this company, the minimum monthly salary for employees in the di!erent grades for these roles
are as in the below table:
Salary Grade A B C D E
Analyst 2700 2900 3300 3600 3900
Senior Analyst 3800 4200 4400 4700 5100
Perform the following steps, combining all the code you write into a single Python script (i.e., .py file):
(a) Write a function salary_grade(years_similar, years_lower) that determines the salary grade (A, B,
C, etc) based on two parameters: (1) the number of full years of experience in a position at the
required level (years_similar) and (2) the number of full years of experience in position at a lower
level (years_lower). The function should return a string value that corresponds to the letter of the
grade that the employee is in.
(b) Write a function minimum_salary(role, grade) that returns the minimum salary (as int value) for
an employee within a given role and salary grade. The parameters correspond to (1) a string
representing the role of the employee ("Analyst" or "Senior Analyst"), and (2) a string with the letter
of the grade the employee is in.
(c) Write a function is_above_minimum(role, grade, salary) that returns True if the current monthly salary
of an employee is above or at the minimum salary for his role and salary grade, and False otherwise.
The role and grade parameters take the same form as in the previous parts, while salary is an integer
parameter giving the current monthly salary of the employee
(d) The main code in your Python script should allow the HR employee to specify whether they want
to perform a calculation for an existing or new employee.
Then:
• For a new employee, the program should ask for the years of experience at a similar and lower
level and the intended role for this employee (Analyst or Senior Analyst). Afterwards it should
print the minimum salary that this employee should get.
• For an existing employee, it should ask for the role and salary grade that the employee is in,
as well as for their current salary. The program should then print if the employee is above the
minimum required salary for their role and salary grade.
Make sure to use the functions that you defined in the previous parts and to print appropriate
output to the console for the HR employee.